[red-knot] Consider all definitions after terminal statements unreachable (#15676)
astral-sh/ruff: crates/red_knot_python_semantic/resources/mdtest/terminal_statements.md

# Terminal statements

## Introduction

Terminal statements complicate a naive control-flow analysis.

As a simple example:

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    if cond:
        x = "test"
    else:
        raise ValueError
    return x

def g(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "test"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
    else:
        x = "unreachable"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["unreachable"]
        raise ValueError
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
```

In `f`, we should be able to determine that the `else` branch ends in a terminal statement, and that
the `return` statement can only be executed when the condition is true. We should therefore consider
the reference always bound, even though `x` is only bound in the true branch.

Similarly, in `g`, we should see that the assignment of the value `"unreachable"` can never be seen
by the final `reveal_type`.

## `return` is terminal

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    if cond:
        x = "test"
    else:
        return "early"

>     return x

Reviewer: Just to clarify, since it took me a moment on first read, even though you just explained it above:
```suggestion
    return x  # no possibly-unresolved-reference diagnostic!
```

def g(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "test"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
    else:
        x = "unreachable"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["unreachable"]
        return
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
```

## `continue` is terminal within its loop scope

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    while True:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
        else:
            continue
        return x

def g(cond: bool, i: int):
    x = "before"
    while i < 5:
        if cond:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            x = "continue"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["continue"]
            continue
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop"]
```

## `break` is terminal within its loop scope

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    while True:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
        else:
            break
        return x

>     return "late"

Reviewer: We could `return x` here as well and expect the `possibly-unresolved-reference` error?

def g(cond: bool, i: int):
    x = "before"
    while i < 5:
        if cond:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            x = "break"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break"]
            break
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop", "break"]
```

> ## `return` is terminal in nested scopes

Reviewer: I don't think "nested scopes" is the right term here; Python `if` statements don't establish nested scopes. This heading would suggest a test with e.g. a nested function.
```suggestion
## `return` is terminal in nested conditionals
```

the reference always bound, even though `x` is only bound in the true branch.

Similarly, in `g`, we should see that the assignment of the value `"unreachable"` can never be seen
by the final `reveal_type`.

## `return` is terminal

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    if cond:
        x = "test"
    else:
        return "early"
    return x  # no possibly-unresolved-reference diagnostic!

def g(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "test"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
    else:
        x = "unreachable"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["unreachable"]
        return
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
```

## `continue` is terminal within its loop scope

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    while True:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
        else:
            continue
        return x

def g(cond: bool, i: int):
    x = "before"
    for _ in range(i):
        if cond:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            x = "continue"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["continue"]
            continue
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop"]

Author: Ooh, this is now incorrect:

If `i <= 0`, the loop body won't execute, and `x == "before"`.
If `i > 0 and cond`, the loop body will execute `i` times, each time assigning `"loop"`.
If `i > 0 and not cond`, the loop body will execute `i` times, each time assigning `"continue"`.

The `continue` statement should mark its flow as unreachable _for when we join the `if` branches_.  But it should _not_ be considered unreachable when we join with the `for` loop's continuation and exit paths.

Author: After discussing in Discord, we've decided that this incorrect result is not because of the new terminal statement handling, but because we're not currently handling _any_ loop back-links (including `continue` statements) pending fixpoint support in salsa.  cf https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/issues/14160

    while True:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
        else:
            continue
        return x

def g(cond: bool, i: int):
    x = "before"
    for _ in range(i):
        if cond:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            x = "continue"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["continue"]
            continue
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    # TODO: Should be Literal["before", "loop", "continue"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop"]
```

## `break` is terminal within its loop scope

```py
def f(cond: bool) -> str:
    while True:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
        else:
            break
        return x
    return x  # error: [unresolved-reference]

def g(cond: bool, i: int):
    x = "before"
    for _ in range(i):
        if cond:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            x = "break"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break"]
            break
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop", "break"]
```

> ## `return` is terminal in nested conditionals

Author: Done

```py
def f(cond1: bool, cond2: bool) -> str:
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = "test1"
        else:
            return "early"
    else:
        x = "test2"
    return x

def g(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = "test1"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test1"]
        else:
            x = "unreachable"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["unreachable"]
            return
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test1"]
    else:
        x = "test2"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test2"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test1", "test2"]
```

> ## Terminal in a `finally` block

Author: Added several `try`- and `raise`-related tests

`return` statements.

TODO: These currently produce the wrong results, but not because of our terminal statement support.
See [ruff#15777](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/issues/15777) for more details.

```py
def top_level_return(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1, 2, 3]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
        else:
            x = 3
    return

def return_from_if(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        # TODO: Unknown | Literal[1, 2, 3]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
        else:
            x = 3
        return

def return_from_nested_if(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        # TODO: Unknown | Literal[1, 2, 3]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1, 3]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
            return
        else:
            x = 3
```

## Early returns and list comprehensions

```py
def f(x: str) -> int:
    y = [x for i in range(len(x))]
    return 4

> ```

Author: When I was using visibility constraints, this was a regression because:

- the `return` statement would mark the `x` parameter as non-visible for the remainder of the flow;
- list comprehensions would resolve free variables as of the end of the containing scope,
- which is technically after the `return` statement, and so the body of the list comprehension wouldn't see the `x` formal parameter as a visible definition.

It's the a lack of an `unresolved-reference` error that shows that the regression isn't there anymore.

Talking through it in detail like this, I think this is superfluous with the "Early returns and nested functions" tests, because it was the "closed-over vars in scopes with `return` statements" part that was relevant, and the "modeling of eagerly-executing nested scopes" was a red herring.

def return_in_then_branch(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "terminal"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["terminal"]
        return
    else:
        x = "test"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]

def return_in_else_branch(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "test"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]
    else:
        x = "terminal"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["terminal"]
        return
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["test"]

def return_in_both_branches(cond: bool):
    if cond:
        x = "terminal1"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["terminal1"]
        return
    else:
        x = "terminal2"
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["terminal2"]
        return

def return_in_try(cond: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond:
            x = "test"
            return
    except:
        # TODO: Literal["before"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "test"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before"]
    finally:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "test"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "test"]

Author: Here we're considering the `"test"` assignment visible even though we return immediately after.  Is that because we assume an exception might occur after the assignment but before the `return`?  (It looks like we take a flow snapshot after every definition in the `try` body.  Should we instead take snapshots after each statement that could in theory raise an exception?  i.e. actual `raise`s plus anything that desugars into a call?)

Reviewer: In practice almost everything in Python desugars into a call, so currently our over-approximation is to take a snapshot after every definition. But yes, I think in future we should aim to refine that to better handle cases where an exception really isn't possible.

Reviewer 2: theoretically even a statement like `x = 3` _could_ raise an exception, since there's always the possibility of a `KeyboardInterrupt` terminating the current scope. But we probably want to pretend that `KeyboardInterrupt` doesn't exist, since most code pretends that `KeyboardInterrupt` doesn't exist, and it will be annoying for users if we explain to them that we're complaining that some variable here might be undefined because they haven't accounted for the possibility of a `KeyboardInterrupt` in their code.

TL;DR: I agree with Carl. We should add a more sophisticated analysis of exactly which statements are actually capable of raising exceptions at some point. We just haven't gotten to it yet.

Author: :+1: Thanks for the details!  I was mostly wanting to confirm my understanding of the result and that there wasn't a bug I needed to fix.

    for _ in range(i):
        if cond1:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            if cond2:
                x = "break1"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break1"]
                break
            else:
                x = "break2"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break2"]
                break
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop", "break1", "break2"]
```

## `raise`

A `raise` statement is terminal. If it occurs in a lexically containing `try` statement, it will
jump to one of the `except` clauses (if it matches the value being raised), or to the `finally`
clause (if none match). Currently, we assume definitions from before the `raise` are visible in all
`except` and `finally` clauses. (In the future, we might analyze the `except` clauses to see which
ones match the value being raised, and limit visibility to those clauses.) Definitions from before
the `raise` are not visible in any `else` clause, but are visible after the containing `try`
statement, since `try` does not introduce a new scope.

> TODO: We are not currently implementing the "jump" behavior correctly for `raise` statements. The
> false positives in this section are because of that, and not our terminal statement support.

Reviewer: AFAICT from the TODOs below, it looks like the only problem you're referring to here is our over-approximation of the possible location where an exception could be raised. Let's describe this a bit more clearly, to save future us from wondering what we meant here. (Also re-wording to avoid making it specific to `raise` statements, since it's really about too many jumps from places that _aren't_ `raise` statements at all, and to avoid describing it as incorrect, since technically (given `KeyboardInterrupt`) the current behavior is correct, just likely not preferable.
```suggestion
Currently we assume that an exception could be raised anywhere within a `try` block; the TODOs below reflect
cases where we could implement a more precise understanding of where exceptions (barring `KeyboardInterrupt`
and `MemoryError`) can and cannot actually be raised.
```

Reviewer: Ah, the first bullet point here makes sense! It sort of seems like the current "right behavior by accident" might suffice until/unless we implement tighter understandings of where exceptions can be raised, at which point we might also need better understanding of what `raise` actually does. Certainly wouldn't object to adding some text to record this context for future.

Reviewer: So I tried to write up an edit describing this, and I kind of ended up concluding that we may never need to implement any special understanding of where `raise` can jump to? Even if we tighten up our understanding of where exceptions can be raised, it seems like the only thing we'll need to do is maintain two things: 1) understanding `raise` as terminal, as we do already in this PR, and 2) still understanding `raise` as "a point where an exception can be raised", as we do in this PR.

(2) seems unlikely to be something we'd miss in that future where we're adding more understanding of exception points, so I'm thinking maybe we don't need to document this any more than it is already.

Author: > Even if we tighten up our understanding of where exceptions can be raised, it seems like the only thing we'll need to do is maintain two things: 1) understanding `raise` as terminal, as we do already in this PR, and 2) still understanding `raise` as "a point where an exception can be raised", as we do in this PR.

Ah yes, that sounds right!

> so I'm thinking maybe we don't need to document this any more than it is already.

:+1:

Author: > still understanding `raise` as "a point where an exception can be raised", as we do in this PR.

The only place where this might fall over is that a `raise` can _only_ raise an exception, whereas a call _can_ but _doesn't have to_ raise one.  So calls could jump to `except` or `else`, while `raise` could only jump to `except`.

No, wait!  Calls can jump to `except` or flow through to the next statement, and _the end of the `try` block_ flows to `else`.  So yes, you're right, `raise` being terminal within the `try` block would correctly encode that it can't "jump" to `else`.  (Nothing actually "jumps" there, in fact.)

```py
def raise_in_then_branch(cond: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond:
            x = "raise"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise"]
            raise ValueError
        else:
            x = "else"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    except ValueError:

>         # TODO: Literal["raise"]

Author: > I don't think this TODO is accurate, since `reveal_type` is a call, and I don't think we'd special-case it to assume it can't raise? So at the very least `"else"` is a possible value here.

Ah, I was actually thinking we _would_ try to do that somehow!  But per above, that deserves discussion, so I'll back out the _assumption_ that we'd try to do that.

> I think it's accurate to say that `"before"` is not possible here, but only if we understand that boolean-testing a value of type `bool` is a special case that doesn't execute a `__bool__` method.

I removed the TODO entirely, leaving `"before"` as a potential possibility here too, so that we're not making _any_ assumptions about how we might make exception tracking less approximate.

        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise", "else"]
    except:

>         # TODO: Literal["raise"] or Never

Author: Done

        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise", "else"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the

>         # `if` statement.

Author: Done.  See above, wrote the commentary based on what exception tracking currently does, not what we might change it to do in the future.

        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise", "else"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise", "else"]

Author: Done

def raise_in_else_branch(cond: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond:
            x = "else"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
        else:
            x = "raise"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise"]
            raise ValueError
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    except ValueError:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise"]
    except:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"] or Never
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the
        # `if` statement.
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise"]

Author: Done

def raise_in_both_branches(cond: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond:
            x = "raise1"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise1"]
            raise ValueError
        else:
            x = "raise2"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise2"]
            raise ValueError
    except ValueError:
        # TODO: Literal["raise1", "raise2"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise1", "raise2"]
    except:

>         # TODO: Literal["raise1", "raise2"] or Never

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # TODO: Literal["raise1", "raise2"]
```

        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise1", "raise2"]
    else:
        # This is unreachable

>         pass

Reviewer: I realize we are intentionally not asserting about types _within_ unreachable code, but can we still verify that we consider this code unreachable by adding an assignment to `x` here and verifying it is not a possible value for `x` in the end?

Author: Done

    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the
        # `if` statement.
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise1", "raise2"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "raise1", "raise2"]

Reviewer: Same comments as above about TODO vs explanatory comment, and about `"before"` as removable from both of these in future

Author: Done

def raise_in_nested_then_branch(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond1:
            x = "else1"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1"]
        else:
            if cond2:
                x = "raise"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise"]
                raise ValueError
            else:
                x = "else2"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else2"]
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else2"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1", "else2"]
    except ValueError:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "raise", "else2"]
    except:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"] or Never
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "raise", "else2"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1", "else2"]
    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the
        # `if` statement.
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "raise", "else2"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "raise", "else2"]

Reviewer: All the same comments as above (though in this case both `"else1"` and `"else2"` should be possible in the `except` clauses)

Author: Done

def raise_in_nested_else_branch(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond1:
            x = "else1"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1"]
        else:
            if cond2:
                x = "else2"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else2"]
            else:
                x = "raise"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise"]
                raise ValueError
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else2"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1", "else2"]
    except ValueError:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "else2", "raise"]
    except:
        # TODO: Literal["raise"] or Never
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "else2", "raise"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else1", "else2"]
    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the
        # `if` statement.
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "else2", "raise"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else1", "else2", "raise"]

Reviewer: Same comments as in previous test

Author: Done

def raise_in_both_nested_branches(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = "before"
    try:
        if cond1:
            x = "else"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
        else:
            if cond2:
                x = "raise1"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise1"]
                raise ValueError
            else:
                x = "raise2"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["raise2"]
                raise ValueError
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    except ValueError:
        # TODO: Literal["raise1", "raise2"]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise1", "raise2"]
    except:
        # TODO: Literal["raise1", "raise2"] or Never
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise1", "raise2"]
    else:
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["else"]
    finally:
        # This includes "before" because we assume that an exception might have occurred before the
        # `if` statement.
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise1", "raise2"]

>     reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "else", "raise1", "raise2"]

Reviewer: Same comments as in above cases (in this case `"else"` should be possible in both `except` clauses)

Author: Done

```

> ## Terminal in a `finally` block

Reviewer: Nit: the test below does not have a terminal statement in a `finally` block, it has a terminal statement in a `try` block with an associated `finally` clause.
```suggestion
## Terminal in `try` with `finally` clause
```

> Control-flow through finally isn't working right yet:

Reviewer: This also seems overly broad; we could be more specific to save future-us from possible confusion about what we meant
```suggestion
TODO: we don't yet model that a `break` or `continue` in a `try` block will jump to a `finally` clause before it
jumps to end/start of the loop.
```

all of the `x` bindings should be visible to the `reveal_type`, regardless of where we place the
`return` statements.

TODO: These currently produce the wrong results, but not because of our terminal statement support.
See [ruff#15777](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/issues/15777) for more details.

```py
def top_level_return(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        # TODO eliminate Unknown
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1, 2, 3]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
        else:
            x = 3
    return

def return_from_if(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        # TODO: Literal[1, 2, 3]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
        else:
            x = 3
        return

def return_from_nested_if(cond1: bool, cond2: bool):
    x = 1

    def g():
        # TODO: Literal[1, 2, 3]
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Unknown | Literal[1, 3]
    if cond1:
        if cond2:
            x = 2
            return
        else:
            x = 3
```

> ## Statically known terminal statements

Author: I've added @sharkdp's example as an mdtest.  I think we can support it by tracking reachability with a visibility constraint, instead of a Rust boolean, but I want to tackle that in a follow-on PR.

        if cond1:
            x = "loop"
            reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
        else:
            if cond2:
                x = "break1"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break1"]
                break
            else:
                x = "break2"
                reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["break2"]
                break
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["loop"]
    reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Literal["before", "loop", "break1", "break2"]
```

## `raise`

A `raise` statement is terminal. If it occurs in a lexically containing `try` statement, it will
jump to one of the `except` clauses (if it matches the value being raised), or to the `else` clause
(if none match). Currently, we assume definitions from before the `raise` are visible in all
`except` and `else` clauses. (In the future, we might analyze the `except` clauses to see which ones
match the value being raised, and limit visibility to those clauses.) Definitions from before the
`raise` are not visible in any `else` clause, but are visible in `except` clauses or after the
containing `try` statement (since control flow may have passed through an `except`).

> Currently we assume that an exception could be raised anywhere within a `try` block; the TODOs below
> reflect cases where we could implement a more precise understanding of where exceptions (barring
> `KeyboardInterrupt` and `MemoryError`) can and cannot actually be raised.

Reviewer: Rewording this slightly since there are no longer TODOs below about this!

```suggestion
Currently we assume that an exception could be raised anywhere within a `try` block. We may want to
implement a more precise understanding of where exceptions (barring `KeyboardInterrupt` and
`MemoryError`) can and cannot actually be raised.
```
